syllabus.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Syllabus
---

## WIS 6934 Ecological Dynamics and Forecasting

  |**Instructors**        |Dr. Morgan Ernest        | Dr. Ethan White
  |**Office Location**    |Building 150, Room 2     | Building 150, Room 1
  |**Phone**              |352-294-2082             | 352-294-2084
  |**Email (preferred)**  |<skmorgane@ufl.edu>      | <ethanwhite@ufl.edu>
  |**Office Hours**       |Tuesday 3-4              |
                                                 
<br>
												 
#### **Times and Locations**

Tuesday, Period 5 (11:45-12:35), MCCA 3194

Wednesday, Period 3 (9:35-10:25), MAT 0010

#### **Course Objectives**

The goal of this class is to provide students a basic understanding of
how populations and communities change through time and to provide fundamental 
concepts of how to forecast those changes. By the end of the semester, students will:

1)  Have an appreciation of the dynamics of species and communities.

2)  Understand the basic concepts of forecasting that apply across fields 
    and the challenges within ecology

3)  Have a basic understanding of working with time series data

#### **General Course Structure and Expectations**

This course is a mixture class discussion of primary literature and
hands-on experience involving some class activities. Completing assigned
readings, intellectual engagement with topics, and discussion
participation are the main ways students will learn in this class.
Tuesdays are typically concept discussion days. Wednesdays will be a mix
of tools or concept discussion. You are expected to come prepared to
discuss the assigned papers.

#### **Course Grading**

80% of grade will be based on class participation, which includes leading one 
discussion during the semester 
20% will be based on completeion of class activities

#### **Attendance Policy**

Two days of discussion can be missed without impacts on your grade. 
Class activities can be made-up on the student's time within a week. 
Additional missed discussions can be made up by providing a written summary of the
readings for the day(s) missed. Written summaries will involve
1-paragraph summary of the main questions and findings for each assigned
paper and 1 paragraph applying the paper to how we think about either ecological 
dynamics or forecasting.

#### **Course Materials**

1)  The free online text book [Forecasting: Principles and Practice](https://www.otexts.org/fpp) 
    will be used for some class activities, but is not required

2)  All reading materials will be made available through the [course website](https://weecology.github.io/forecasting-dynamics-course/Canvas). 
    

3)  Laptops: On class activity days, laptops will be required for class.


### **UF Policies**

#### **University Policy on Accommodating Students with Disabilities**

Students requesting accommodation for disabilities must first register
with the Dean of Students Office (http://www.dso.ufl.edu/drc/). The Dean
of Students Office will provide documentation to the student who must
then provide this documentation to the instructor when requesting
accommodation. You must submit this documentation prior to submitting
assignments or taking the quizzes or exams. Accommodations are not
retroactive, therefore, students should contact the office as soon as
possible in the term for which they are seeking accommodations.

#### **University Policy on Academic Misconduct**

Academic honesty and integrity are fundamental values of the University
community. Students should be sure that they understand the UF Student
Honor Code at http://www.dso.ufl.edu/students.php.

#### **Netiquette and Communication Courtesy**

All members of the class are expected to follow rules of common courtesy
in all email messages, threaded discussions and chats.


#### **Getting Help**

Other resources are available at
http://www.distance.ufl.edu/getting-help for:

-   Counseling and Wellness resources

-   Disability resources

-   Resources for handling student concerns and complaints

-   Library Help Desk support

Should you have any complaints with your experience in this course
please visit http://www.distance.ufl.edu/student-complaints to submit a
complaint.

Most importantly, if you are struggling for any reason please come talk
to us and we will do our best to help.

#### **Grading scale**

-   **A 93-100**

-   **A- 90-92**

-   **B+ 87-89**

-   **B 83-86**

-   **B- 80-82**

-   **C+ 77-79**

-   **C 73-76**

-   **C- 70-72**

-   **D+ 67-69**

-   **D 60-66**

-   **E <60**


#### **Course Schedule**

The details course schedule is available on the [course website](https://weecology.github.io/forecasting-dynamics-course/Canvas).

**Disclaimer:** This syllabus represents our current plans and
objectives. As we go through the semester, those plans may need to
change to enhance the class learning opportunity. Such changes,
communicated clearly, are not unusual and should be expected.

Commit message:

Updated attendance policy syllabus.md
Added limits on how many classes can be missed and additional info on what is required to make up classes

syllabus.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Syllabus
---

## WIS 6934 Ecological Dynamics and Forecasting

  |**Instructors**        |Dr. Morgan Ernest        | Dr. Ethan White
  |**Office Location**    |Building 150, Room 2     | Building 150, Room 1
  |**Phone**              |352-294-2082             | 352-294-2084
  |**Email (preferred)**  |<skmorgane@ufl.edu>      | <ethanwhite@ufl.edu>
  |**Office Hours**       |Tuesday 3-4              |
                                                 
<br>
												 
#### **Times and Locations**

Tuesday, Period 5 (11:45-12:35), MCCA 3194

Wednesday, Period 3 (9:35-10:25), MAT 0010

#### **Course Objectives**

The goal of this class is to provide students a basic understanding of
how populations and communities change through time and to provide fundamental 
concepts of how to forecast those changes. By the end of the semester, students will:

1)  Have an appreciation of the dynamics of species and communities.

2)  Understand the basic concepts of forecasting that apply across fields 
    and the challenges within ecology

3)  Have a basic understanding of working with time series data

#### **General Course Structure and Expectations**

This course is a mixture class discussion of primary literature and
hands-on experience involving some class activities. Completing assigned
readings, intellectual engagement with topics, and discussion
participation are the main ways students will learn in this class.
Tuesdays are typically concept discussion days. Wednesdays will be a mix
of tools or concept discussion. You are expected to come prepared to
discuss the assigned papers.

#### **Course Grading**

80% of grade will be based on class participation, which includes leading one 
discussion during the semester 
20% will be based on completeion of class activities

#### **Attendance Policy**

Two days can be missed without impacts on your grade without the need
to submit make-up work, though we recommend that students attempt any 
missed class activities on their own time because additional class 
activities or discussions may rely on that knowledge. 

Up to 4 additional missed days can be made-up by submitting make-up work.
Class activities can be made-up on the student's time within a week by doing
the activity and submitting the code/data for instruvtor evaluation. Missed 
discussions can be made up by providing a written summary of the readings 
for the day(s) missed. Written summaries will involve 1-paragraph summary of the 
main questions and findings for each assigned paper and 1 paragraph applying the 
paper to how we think about either ecological dynamics or forecasting.

If a student anticpates missing more than 6 class days (i.e. 3 weeks of classes), you
must talk to the instructors beforehand.

#### **Course Materials**

1)  The free online text book [Forecasting: Principles and Practice](https://www.otexts.org/fpp) 
    will be used for some class activities, but is not required

2)  All reading materials will be made available through the [course website](https://weecology.github.io/forecasting-dynamics-course/Canvas). 
    

3)  Laptops: On class activity days, laptops will be required for class.


### **UF Policies**

#### **University Policy on Accommodating Students with Disabilities**

Students requesting accommodation for disabilities must first register
with the Dean of Students Office (http://www.dso.ufl.edu/drc/). The Dean
of Students Office will provide documentation to the student who must
then provide this documentation to the instructor when requesting
accommodation. You must submit this documentation prior to submitting
assignments or taking the quizzes or exams. Accommodations are not
retroactive, therefore, students should contact the office as soon as
possible in the term for which they are seeking accommodations.

#### **University Policy on Academic Misconduct**

Academic honesty and integrity are fundamental values of the University
community. Students should be sure that they understand the UF Student
Honor Code at http://www.dso.ufl.edu/students.php.

#### **Netiquette and Communication Courtesy**

All members of the class are expected to follow rules of common courtesy
in all email messages, threaded discussions and chats.


#### **Getting Help**

Other resources are available at
http://www.distance.ufl.edu/getting-help for:

-   Counseling and Wellness resources

-   Disability resources

-   Resources for handling student concerns and complaints

-   Library Help Desk support

Should you have any complaints with your experience in this course
please visit http://www.distance.ufl.edu/student-complaints to submit a
complaint.

Most importantly, if you are struggling for any reason please come talk
to us and we will do our best to help.

#### **Grading scale**

-   **A 93-100**

-   **A- 90-92**

-   **B+ 87-89**

-   **B 83-86**

-   **B- 80-82**

-   **C+ 77-79**

-   **C 73-76**

-   **C- 70-72**

-   **D+ 67-69**

-   **D 60-66**

-   **E <60**


#### **Course Schedule**

The details course schedule is available on the [course website](https://weecology.github.io/forecasting-dynamics-course/Canvas).

**Disclaimer:** This syllabus represents our current plans and
objectives. As we go through the semester, those plans may need to
change to enhance the class learning opportunity. Such changes,
communicated clearly, are not unusual and should be expected.
