discussion/rangeshifts.md, before:

---
layout: nil
---
#### Comparing the Past to the Present
1. Based on the Pleistocene papers from last week, how do we expect geographic ranges to shift in response to climate change?
2. What are Parmesan et al seeing in range shifts today?
3. Does your expectation from the Pleistocene papers and the results from the Parmesan paper match? What does that tell us?

#### Reflect on their data given our discussion on data
1. What kind of data did they use? (hint, you need to look at the supplementary materials)
2. How do their data source(s) match up with our list? 
3. Do you think a similar approach to data could be used for other taxa?

#### A quick activity

1. Before coming to class, do a quick literature search on information about range shifts in response to climate change for the
taxonomic group of your choice. The goal isn't to be exhaustive, it's to help fuel a quasi-informed discussion about our current state of
knowledge 
     A. Have studies of range shifts been done for your organisms? 
     B. If so, what are people finding?

Commit message:

Update modern range shift questions for 2018

discussion/rangeshifts.md, after:

---
layout: nil
---

Discussion Questions:  

* What is the significance of species range shifts? 
* How does our knowledge of past climatic conditions (aka The Pleistocene) influence our interpretation of modern range shifts?  
* How are boundary changes vs non-boundary changes similar and different?  Do they influence species’ ecology in similar ways?  
* Parmesan et al. focuses on the role of climate in driving modern range shifts, but what other factors could/should be considered in analyzing the distributional changes of species?  
* How are latitudinal and altitudinal range shifts for boundary species similar and different?  How does a species’ movement up a mountain or closer to the poles influence its ecology? 
* Parmesan et al. found no obvious phylogenetic component in butterfly range shift patterns.  Are there other components that may influence the ability of butterflies to alter their distribution? 
* Butterflies are known to be sensitive to temperature.  How do we apply the results of this study to other taxa?
